---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---
# Week 3 Blog

> This week, we explored a version-controlled system by practicing using git. In the second lecture, Jim Hall from FreeDOS came to deliver an inspirational zoom talk. In this blog, I will be sharing my thoughts on these two activities.
> 

## Git Activity

My previous experience with git was remaining at class projects, specifically individual class projects. In this way, the only git function I used was clone, add, commit, and push. Indeed, I had been using git as a cloud-based platform to store my individual works while git offers so much more. When referring to “so much more,” the main component is git’s version control system. This week’s lecture introduces other major git functions like pull, different types of push (push or push origin-master), branches, fork, and conflict resolution. The git activity offers more hands-on functions mentioned above. However, I am still quite confused above origin upstream - what is it and why do we need it. My understanding is that it allowed my local repository is consistent with the repository that I am wishing to contribute to. However, my confusion lies in how is it able to change my local files and keep them updated. I believe that the only way to figure all these out is through more practice and experience. I am grateful that now I have some basic knowledge to start the exploration process.

## Jim Hall Talk

Last Thursday, Jim Hall from FreeDOS delivered an inspirational talk. It was fascinating to hear from someone with first-hand experience with the development of open source. Indeed, he started an open-source project when the term open source didn’t even exist. It is also inspiring to know that the open-source characteristic allows a project to thrive for such a long time. During the talk, Jim Hall described how the open-source world has been changed from the 90s to now. He elaborated that in the 90s, a lot of open source projects involves making open source versions of closed source projects, while open source now is more about innovation and creativity. When I first hear that, my initial reaction is “the role of open source in the 90s sounds like pirating!” But after I rethink about that, as long as they do not steal code, it is not pirating. Ideas should not be copyrighted, or else the world would become a huge monopoly with little progress. How the world of open source has transformed is a good example that how promoting “ideas should not be copyrighted” has led to a good cause - a more creative and innovative future.
