> This Week’s Highlights
- Our Group’s Progress/Presentation 
- Other Group’s Presentation
> 

## Our Group’s Progress

Our group made a lot of progress this week! On Tuesday, we finally submitted our pull request on the themes we created. This pull request contains a lot of our hard work (hundreds of lines of code). The maintainer of the project responded very quickly! They approved our theme, leaving a few minor places that need to be fixed. I made those changes accordingly and our pull request was successfully merged on Thursday, so that was great news.

On Thursday, our group made our final presentation to the entire class. I think the result turns out to be surprisingly good. Since our project involves a lot of visual elements and effects, we can directly show our results to the class. Also, Spotify is an App that is already known to most people. In this way, our presentation is indeed relevant to a lot of our peers.

After the class, I think I am going to continue to work on this project. Mostly because I am the creator of the project. Therefore, I need to take the responsibility to maintain it. The project maintainer has assigned Ian and me to the auto-assign list. Therefore, I am expected to take the role of maintaining the project. Also, there are still some minor bugs of our theme, I think that we can try to fix them after the end of this class.

## Other Group’s Presentation

Thursday was our last day of class. Aside from our group, two other groups also had a presentation. Specifically, I was really inspired by the Blender Group’s presentation. What really inspires me is that they took a very active role in this project. Blender, as another group has already mentioned,’ is indeed a very sophisticated project. For such a project, sometimes it is very hard to make contributions due to technical barriers. This group has also encountered that problem. However, instead of stucking on these technical barriers, they shift their gears from the Blender APP to the [blender.org](http://blender.org) website. While working on the website, aside from fixing issues, they also actively find ways to improve this website through ways like testing and improving the accessibility of the website. I think this is really a creative idea and it really shows their active participation in the project.
