---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

> This week’s highlight
- Mini Presentation On Each Group’s Progress
- My Group’s Contribution
> 

## Mini Presentation On Each Group’s Progress

On this Tuesday and Thursday, each group made a short presentation on their progress in contributing to their selected open-source projects. Surprisingly, some groups choose the same projects to contribute. For example, three groups choose to contribute to Oppia. After hearing their presentation, I kind of understand why Oppia is such a popular choice. From the group’s presentation, they have a very good mentorship program. So it sounds like a good project to get started with open source contribution. From the slack channel, I learned that the groups contributing to Oppia are soon having a meeting with Oppia’s founder Sean. I think that it is very fascinating to have such an opportunity. 

Hearing from other groups’ presentations, I learned that different open source projects have different characteristics in terms of pace and workflow. Unlike the project that our group choose, some projects are very large in terms of scale and they worked at a very fast pace. There are a lot of issues coming in every day and sometimes you can work on an issue while realizing that somebody else has already fixed the issue in the meantime. 

I also learned that there are indeed a lot of types of open source contributions. Some groups made contributions by fixing bugs, while others handles translation and textual works. I believe that all of them are indeed important contributions.

Overall, I think that hearing from other groups is really a beneficial experience. It gave me an opportunity to hear what is it like to contribute to different projects. I believe that it will offer me more insights into project selection for the future. 

## My Group’s Progress

This week, our biggest achievement is that we finally figure out how to use the remote dev tool. In this way, we were finally able to get an overview of Spotify's page layout, and it is really beneficial and efficient in terms of debugging. We are finally less confused. 

We put our focus from finding issues and fixing issues to building our new theme. Even though we figured out the debugging tool, we realized that building a new theme is not as easy as we thought it is. We came up with certain ideas but they are not that easy to implement. The greatest obstacle is that we have very limited access to the code of the actual Spotify app. In this way, our theme was very much limited to purely CSS works. However, from a theme called Turntable, we learn that that author was actually able to make some effects through javascript, I believe that diving into that theme will give us some inspiration on how to implement our ideas.
