> This week’s highlight:
- Open Source Group Project
- Tom Callaway’s talk
> 

## Open Source Group Project

This week, we started our open source group project in a group of four. During our discussion, we quickly came to the consensus that we are going to be contributing to the Spicetify project. It is a tool for users to customize the Spotify desktop app. I have been using this tool for a while and I think that it would be very interesting to transform my role from a “user” to a “developer.”

Ways to contribute to this project are to fix issues, create themes, and create extensions on the marketplace. We started this week by setting up the environment and environment for this project and maybe fixing a few bugs. This process was way harder than I imagined. My previous programming experience was very limited to class projects, so I did not have experience indirectly using a programming project that is already built. Figuring out the files can be quite challenging.

Thankfully, I am not alone, the fact that we are working in a team gives me a lot of confidence in this project. Helping each other always makes the process easier.

## Tom Callaway’s Talk

Tom Callaway worked in Red Hat for about 20 years. It is just fascinating to hear him share his experience in Red Hat and the open-source industry. In this course, we haven’t talked about Open Source Project’s business model. In this talk, Tom shared how the business model of Red Hat has transformed. In the very beginning, they sell phone consulting services by hours. After they encounters limitations, they decided to change their business model on subscription bases by offering a package of services for their customers. I will say that this model is very advanced during that time. It is quite similar to Patreon. A lot of content creators will use Patreon. As their contents are public on the internet, they can use Patreon service so that the users who have subscriptions can enjoy exclusive content and private events. I believe such a system can really ensure a healthy open-source environment. After all, without profit, it would be very hard for any project to sustain and succeed.
