---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

> In this very first blog, I shared my general impression of open source, my intention to take this class, and some open source projects I like.

## General Impression of Open Source:

When I thought of open source, what immediately came to my mind is GitHub. When I first heard of this platform, I was stunned by how people share their projects and even raw code to the entire internet. Unlike academic papers where I need miscellaneous processes to gain access, on Github, all I need is a simple sign-up process. I later learned that a lot of well-known tech projects like firefox and even Java are open source as well. A question soon came to me, “In the world of computer science, why people are comfortable sharing their work, which they possibly spent a great number of efforts in, to the entire internet?” I then realized that it is way more than a pure intention of selflessness, the open-source environment played an important role in pushing the entire tech industry forward.

## Open Source and Me:

While being amazed by the idea of open source, I was deeply overwhelmed. I felt that I have learned a lot in my computer science classes but never know how to use and broaden my knowledge to the real world. I felt disconnected. People always say, “just go to Github, start a project on your own, or find a project to contribute to.” It sounds fairly easy, but whenever I was in Github, I just lost all my direction. I hope that by the end of this class, I can become a confident contributor and be more involved in the world of open source.

## Open Source Projects:

- **[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page):** I was constantly warned by people, “do not use Wikipedia, the information up there is not accurate since everyone can contribute to it.” Despite these warnings, I found myself always clicking on Wikipedia links when I am trying to get a quick understanding of something.
- **[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/):** VS Code was my go-to IDE. I like it for how customizable and adaptable it is. It contains a lot of extensions that I can add to the IDE to fit my programming needs. I wonder that it is its open-sourced characteristic that allows it to be such customizable.
- **[Java](https://www.java.com/en/):** Java is the programming language that I am most comfortable in, partly because both Intros to CS and Data Structure are taught in Java. However, I did not previously know that it is open source.
- **[GPT-Neo](https://www.eleuther.ai/projects/gpt-neo/):** GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) is a language model auto-generates contents based on the learning from existing texts. The more well-known version is GPT-3 developed by OpenAI. Unfortunately, GPT-3 is not open source and is a paid service. In this context, GPT-Neo is an open-sourced version of GPT-3 developed by ELeutherAI.
