---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

> This week’s highlight:
- [Riju Khatri](https://www.linkedin.com/in/riju-khatri/?originalSubdomain=in)’s talk
- Other Group’s Presentation
- Our group’s progress
> 

## [Riju Khatri](https://www.linkedin.com/in/riju-khatri/?originalSubdomain=in)’s talk

This Tuesday, Riju Khatri came to give a wonderful talk that shares her experience and involvement as an open-source contributor. I found Riju Khatri’s presentation to be very helpful. She first shared how and why she started becoming an open-source contributor. Then, she shared how did she get comfortable contributing to open source and becoming a regular open-source contributor even while working for BlackRock. What I liked the most about her talk is that I found the content of her talk to be very relevant. While the previous guest speakers show us the first-hand knowledge as open-source experts, Riju showed us how to enter the open-source world. 

Also, the general vibe of this talk is very interactive and down-to-earth. Riju leaves a lot of time for us to ask questions. Surprisingly, the questions never stop. I believe that it may be because most people found Riju’s experience to be helpful and relevant. 

During the presentation, I asked Riju how to establish connections in the open-source world. I ask this question because since most works on open source are virtual and the communication is all happening virtually, I think that it is hard to build that connection and belongingness. To answer my question, Riju mentioned that a lot of interaction will happen while contributing to open source and most people are friendly and welcoming. Also, she also shares her experience attending to open source conferences. She found those conferences to be very helpful. Also, as a lot of the conferences are happening virtually due to the pandemic, there are actually more opportunities to attend these conferences.

Overall, I found Riju’s presentation to be very inspiring and empowering.

## Other Group’s Presentation

This Thursday, three groups (Oppia, CAGOV, Open Library) did presentation on their group presentation. I found these presentations to be very inspiring. First, I really like the CAGOV group’s presentation style. They started their presentation by asking the audience questions. This makes the audience to be very engaging. Also, I think that the project they choose is very unique, and it is very happy to see that they are really building a meaningful contribution that the project team really appreciates. I think sometimes it is important to contribute to projects that don’t have much attention since these projects may really need help. 

I also found the presentation on Open Library to be very interesting. From their presentation, they mentioned that the name and leverage of “NYU” actually helps them to get more attention from the project team. I never thought that mentioning our school would be helpful in such a setting. However, their experience shows that NYU could offer a lot of leverage as a way to show personal ability. 

## Our Group’s Presentation

We had a lot of progress this week. After we figuring how the remote debugging tool works, we finally landed a design. We had a very productive meeting this Thursday. We split up the work and get things done very efficiently. By the end of the meeting, we landed a presentable product, while leaving some minor issues to fix (color variable and progress bar length). I spent some time on the weekend diving into these issues and finally got them fixed. I also added a few more color schemes to our theme. I am really proud of our work. I think we are ready to submit a pull request and our main goal for next week is to work on our slides and follow up on the pull request.
