---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

> This week, we finally finished our browser add-on and delivered a presentation to the class. I will reflect on my experience during the browser add-on activity in the scope of group work, my contribution, things I learned, and thoughts on other teams' presentations.
> 

## Group Work

As mentioned in the previous blog, I haven’t done group work in a very long time. It is the first time I have collaborated with someone I completely don’t know of beforehand on a programming project. However, I turned out to have a very good group working experience! All of my teammates are very chill and proactive. We did not encounter any conflicts and we always met agreement very quickly. We set up two zoom meetings to discuss and build our project, that two zoom meetings have been very efficient and we got a lot of our work done. If we have chances, I believe that in-person meetings will be more efficient and we may be able to complete our tasks in a shorter time if we did an in-person meeting.

## My Contribution

After we figured out the basic track of our project. I did some research on the possible packages and implementations that we can include in our project. Crystal ended up finding a plausible package for our project. Then, I started to explore how to embed the package into our project. In that process, we have encountered a lot of difficulties since we don’t have much experience in javascript. I can create a popup with the confetti effect but I have trouble setting the confetti as the background of the webpage. We were so frustrated but then it turned out that deleting one line on the confetti code will solve all of the problems.

However, we then realized that our project has a lot of limitations and it lacks consistency. Also, we believe that we can add a lot more features to our projects. To enable the long-term improvement of our project, I took the initiative to write the [contributing.md](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/slap-a-fetti/blob/8305dd53ff7dae1a5801d86720ecc9cfdf5adefe/CONTRIBUTING.md) file. In this document, I listed four ways to contribute to our project. Among each of them, I listed specific steps for contribution and also included channels to allow users who don’t know how to code to report a bug and contribute. Also, I opened up three [issues](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/slap-a-fetti/issues) to allow contributors to gain directions of their contribution process.

## Things I Learnt

To begin with, Collaborating with people who did not know of really allow me to step out of my comfort zone. After this successful group project experience, I think am no longer that nervous and afraid of group projects. Also, it is my first time building a browser add-on, although it is just a very simple project, I still believe that I have learned the necessary techniques for building a firefox browser add-on. It also let me realize that some works that may seem hard and intimidating are actually not that hard to implement and there are always some instructions and guides out there. All I need to do is to find it and build on it.

## Other Group’s Work

Maybe it is due to the time limitations of this project, it turned out that a lot of groups have very similar ideas. There are two major clusters in terms of project ideas: content blocking and browser appearance settings. Among them, two projects that stood out to me are [YouTubeEX](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/YouTubeEX) and [less-ugly-brightspace](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/less-ugly-brightspace). I believe that what allows them to stand out is that they took user needs and user experience into their considerations. They thought of actual scenarios of when and why the users may need this extension. That is what made their project attractive. Other projects (including our own) are cool but I just can’t find a reason for me to use them. After hearing other people’s presentations, I started to reflect on what are the components that made a project stand out and successful, which I believe this kind of reflection is really meaningful.
