---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

> This Week’s Highlight
- Discussion on Business Models for Open Source Software
- My Group’s Progress
> 

## Business Models for Open Source Software

This Tuesday, we had a discussion on the different business models that are commonly used by Open Source Software. Profit is generally not the primary goal of open-source software. However, a good business model is important to ensure the long-term sustainability of open source projects. After all, developers can’t work for free.

On the top of my head, the business model associated with open source software is a donation. Donation is indeed a business model that open-source software can adapt. For example, Wikipedia is a well-known platform that accepts donations. However, according to our class discussion, the donation is indeed not Wikipedia’s main source of revenue. The donation business model is not as sustainable and it really requires the scale of the project to be large enough with enough exposure.

In this class, we discussed the four main business models for open source softwares:

- Support and services
- Advertisement partnerships
- Paid additional features (a.k.a., open core)
- Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)

Red Hat is the first company that made money through open-source software and support and services is their primary business model. As Tom Callaway suggests in his talk last Thursday, it took them quite a while to explore the right kind of support and service model that can be truly profitable and sustainable while keeping the core of open source. 

I would also want to discuss more on the SaaS business model. I have never thought that this could be a business model for Open Source. If the source code of a project is public, how is it possible for companies to charge users for using their software? In our class, we addressed that software and service are totally two different things. For example, Blackboard is open-source software that provides educational technology services (like NYU Brightspace). Although the source code is public, schools still need make purchase in order to host classrooms on their server. Same thing with Spotify(it is now partly open source). It is true that you have all the source code for the APP, but you still need to go to the APP to listen music. Only having the source code won’t be able to perform any actions. In this case, for these types of software, SaaS is indeed a good and sustainable business model.

## My Group’s Contribution

This week, we met on Thursday in class and after class. To begin with, we followed up on the pull request we made last week. We need to update the screenshot for our color scheme in order for it to be published. 

After we did that, we explored the existing code of the project and found several bugs. We submit the bugs to the issue list. Although we found fixes to these bugs, since they already assigned the bug to someone else (I guess the creator of the themes), we just posted comments to explain the possible fixes we found. However, up until now, these bugs still haven’t been reviewed, so I am wondering what are some possible steps to take.

Our long-term goal is to create our own Spotify theme. Therefore, in the second half of our meeting, we discussed some possible features that we can add to our theme. We assigned some features to every one of us and try implementing it. The one I am working on is to replace the progress bar with some images. However, this one had been especially hard to implement. Thankfully, my teammates provide a lot of suggestions on this. Although we didn’t end up finding a fix, it has been a great collaborating experience and it is nice to think that there is a group to support me.
