---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

> Week 7 highlights:
- The Cathedral and The Bazaar
- Open source’ role in global affairs
- Looking Foward to Contributing to Open Source Projects
> 

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar

Last week, we read an essay written by Eric Raymond - The Cathedral and The Bazzar. This essay was able Eric Raymond’s observation in the open-source development industry. More specifically, the Linux kernel.  During Tuesday’s class, we held a little discussion over the key points addressed. These key points are sort of like advice that Eric Raymond have for the open-source developers. I think the two key takeaways from these key points are: 1. Do not get too attached to your own project; 2. Always remember to utilize the most important resources out there.

1. Do not get too attached to your own project:
- Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.
- When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor.
- Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.
- Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away.

I think the four points above very much illustrated why is it important to not get too attached to your own project. Projects serves the public, not the programmer. Therefore, it is judged by the public, not the programmer. However, it is some time hard to be open to these judgements. These projects likely took a lot of efforts to make, and they are like the developer’s babies. Even every little function is very precious to the development. However, in real life, some projects that took great efforts to made may be proven to not suitable to the needs of the users and it didn’t end up solving the problem that it supposed to solve. In these cases, it is wiser to let go the project instead of stuck on it and trying to “make it better.” In other cases, it might be that other people are more suitable for the project or some functions needs to be removed. In those cases, it is also wiser to let go the project.

1. Always remember to utilize the most important resources out there.
- Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.
- Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.
- Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow.
- The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users.

From the key points above, it is not hard to realize that the “important resources” refers to the customers. They are the ones that your projects are ultimately serving. Sometimes, it is tempting to build the project to perfect that feed it to the customers. However, what is “perfect?” Is it possible to reach the ultimate “perfect”? Unfortunately, it is hard, but the project can get better and better through keep developing. In that development process, customer is the programmers’ greatest helper. How?  It is important to not treat the customers as passive users that receive whatever the programmers give them. In contrast, they can be active respondent. As Eric Raymond mentioned, “given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow.”

## Open source’ role in global affairs

In Thursday’s lecture, we discussed open source’s role in global affairs, especially in the context of Russian’s invasion towards Ukraine. To avoid their project to be utilized by the Russian government, a lot of companys suspended their service in Russia. Some of those companies and software are open sourced. Here comes a dilemma: according to Open Source Initiative, there must be “no discrimination against persons or groups” and “no discrimination against fields of endeavor.” According to this line: open source developers can’t restrict any use or distributions over their project, especially that “discrimination” is towards a specific group of people. At the same time, if Russian’s government use open source softwares on their invasion towards Ukrain, it is definately the last thing that open source developers would like to see. 

One easy solution can be to say that just limit the use of open source to government instead of the people. That easy answer is indeed hard to implement as the boundary line between government and people is very unclear. “People” is a very general term. A citizen in a country could be totoally disprove of what his/her government’s decisions while another citizen can be a crazy supportor of his/her country’s entire decision. 

While open source become important towards Ukrain, the safety side of open source software become an issue that worth debating. Indeed, it is hard to find a balance.

## Looking Foward to Contributing to Open Source Projects

The two projects that I found are Pock - a touch bar manager, and Global Forest Watch - a platform serves the purpose of protecting forest. I found these two projects to be very interesting. However, after completing the project evalutation form, I found some limitations in each of them. Therefore, I think I am still in the processs finding good projects to contribute that can prepare me to contribute to these two project in the future. At the same time, if someone is interested in the two projects I selected, I am open to work on them too.

My main goal of this activity, is to get some basic experiences in contributing to open source. To break down, I wish to make some contributions that can be adapted by the development team, or maybe fix a few issues. I also wish to collaborate with likeminded people so that I can gain more experience in group projects. 

I am really forward to this activity and I hope that this activity can set me a strong foundation in becoming a active open source contributor.
