---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

> This week’s highlights:
- Reflection on Chrispher Snider’s presentation
- Reflection on the role that open source play in communities
> 

## Reflection on Christopher Snider’s presentation

This Tuesday, Christopher Snider from Tidepool came to give us a presentation on Tidelpool - a non-profit organization that helps patients to track diabetes data. Before learning about this presentation, I always thought that making a project open source mainly benefits programmers - to enable more open and more welcoming programming environments. However, I haven’t thought about it on the client-side. Why does it matter to the users whether a project is open-source or not? How the opensourceness of a project may benefit users. At least before I learn anything about computer science, with the only role of user, I have never thought of whether the source of a project is open and I never imagine that it would affect me. However, learning about Tidelpool and its impact on diabetes changed my mind about that.

When I first heard about the data, I thought it is a cool project that may be very important to diabetes patients. However, I have the main question: aside from the fact that it is free, how does Tidepool stand out from other similar closed source projects.

Then I dug into the project. What stands out the most is an interview with a diabetic patient, also a user of tidepool. What amazed me is how she can customize the app and add functions to fit her personal needs. This example led me to reflect on the value of open source projects to users. Because the project is open source, users are no longer just passive users who receive whatever the programmer feed to them, they gained the opportunities to become active participators of these projects. There is no longer such a barrier between user and developer. Users can have the resources and guidance to become developers and to make the project fit their personalized needs. I believe that feature means even more in a medical setting, it is a matter of health. The open sources of Tidepool allow the users to take ownership of their own health.

## Reflection on the role that open source play in communities

This Thursday, we discussed various humanitarian open source projects. I believe that this meaningful discussion expands my understanding of these projects. What inspired me the most is the discussion on “farming for the future.” We discussed how this project brings more attention to the farming industry and breaks the stereotypes(specifically gender stereotypes) on farming by educating our next generations.

After this discussion, I reflected on the stereotypes that we have about the farming industry. Throughout my education, I never thought about pursuing anything related to farming. Why? Maybe it lies in the stereotypes I have on this industry. More specifically, the stereotype that my family delivers to me. At least in China, a lot of our grandparent generations were farmers. In my parent's generation, they use education to escape the farming lifestyle and came to big cities to pursue a more “modern” life. For my generation, my parent set me to a bigger platform by sending me abroad. I saw a clear hierarchy in industries and jobs - farming is at the bottom level and industries like computer science, finance, engineering are at the top. This may explain why I never thought of farming as one of my future careers. However, I ponder: “are industries like computer science, finance, and engineering better and more important than farming.” The clear answer is no.

Open source projects like “farming for the future” really break the barriers and hierarchy of industries. Industries can be closely related and every industry shares some importance in our world. It is possible to make a meaningful impact in every industry. Sending this message to the younger generation is even more important in breaking the stereotypes since the future is theirs. They have the chance to decide what the future should be like.
