---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

> This week’s highlight: 
- Project Evaluation on Open EMR;
- RedHat Video Reflection
> 

## Project Evaluation Activity

Last Tuesday, I did a project evaluation activity with my groupmate Ayden. We evaluated a project called [Open EMR](https://www.open-emr.org/). This is a project that provides electronic health records and medical practice management solutions. We did a throughout evaluation of this project by analyzing the repository and the project’s website to figure out whether this project is good for first-time contributors.

The short answer to this question is: “no, I don’t think that this project is friendly for first-time contributors.” It is mostly because this project relies on some very heavy terms and it is very domain-specific. The discussions on repository and group chats are very technical. Moreover, although most people are very friendly, some very basic and intro questions will be ignored by the project team. This reflects the project team’s general attitude towards newbies: not that welcoming.

However, if you have very throughout knowledge of this project and you are a confident contributor, I will say that this is a good project to contribute to. Mostly because this project is very active. A lot of issues are opened and the issues are very well-documented. Pull requests are mostly been reviewed and there is a lot of discussion under almost every issue and pull request. Also, there are multiple communication channels including but not limited to slack and the company’s discussion forum. The slack channel requires permission but I can tell from the discussion forum that a lot of discussions are actively happening.

## Video Reflection

### [Open Data in Chile](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/starting-small-open-data)

I first click on this video with the curiosity of what open sources are like in a country that I am not that familiar with, or in other words, a country that is quite far away from me and my life. After watching this video, I am really quite impressed by how creative and welcoming the environment is. The two projects that were introduced show how open source projects can create a real impact in supporting local culture/business and addressing environmental issues. Maybe it is because those profits are not the primary goal of these two projects, I feel the passion in these two narrators. I think that may be one of the powers of open-source: it is a domain consisting of strong passions.

### [Democratizing Knowledge in Higher Education](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/live-talk-democratizing-knowledge)

In my first semester at NYU, one of my greatest shocks is the high price of textbooks. After reading the required textbook pages on NYU bookstore, I realized that the textbook fee was over hundreds of dollars. However, as a freshman, I still choose to buy all of the required textbooks. After the first semester, I was told by other friends that there are other websites out there where I can directly download all kinds of textbooks in pdf versions. Then I was stuck in a dilemma of whether to use those websites given that those websites are apparently illegal without copyright and licenses. With these experiences, when I watch this video, I would say that this project is really beneficial. I set an open platform that achieved two goals: to lessen the burden of students on the ridiculously high textbook fees while reducing the illegal spread of textbooks. However, I believe that a throughout business model is needed because we don’t want textbook writing to suddenly become a fully non-profitable business.
