---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

> This week’s highlight:
- Group contribution
- Personal contribution
> 

## Group Contribution

This Thursday, we had our group gather together and work on our contribution to the open-source project Spicetify. We worked on it during the class and after class till 4 pm. This is technically our second session. In our first session, we decided to let everyone in our group download the project and set up the dependencies in our own time before the second session. However, Alex encountered some trouble with the setup process. We looked into that issue together and it took us a long time to get it fixed. We navigated through the discussion board and the issue page of the project to discover if there are other people with similar issues and some possible fixes. It took us a long time but I do think that that is a meaningful process since coding is a process where strange issues often arise. We also learned the importance of physically working together. Having one person facing all of the bugs alone can be very frustrating, so we decided to have more in-person working sessions instead of having everyone complete things on their own.

After everyone set up, we looked into the existing issues of the project and we decides to work on one. That user requested to have a dark theme on top of the existing ones. We figured that this should be a very easy issue to fix and allow us an opportunity to explore the actual code of the project. In the beginning, we have trouble letting the changes we made on the codebase actually show up on Spotify. After we looked into that issue, we realized that we need to re-config every time we make changes to let the changes become fully functional.

I think we accomplished a lot of small steps this week. Each step may seem small but I do believe that they are all meaningful. At the very end of our meeting, we set up our goals for the next week and I am really looking forward to our next week’s session.

## Personal Contribution

While I was navigating Open Street Map this week, I saw that the area around my living place was very incorrect. I realized that it may be because I live in a newly built building and a lot of areas around me are still under construction.

The first thing I did was to market the area of my building. The surprising thing is that someone quickly responded to me suggesting that I should reflect the true shape of the building instead of vaguely drawing the area, so I made that change correspondingly. After that, another person suggested that I should make changes to the construction area as the current map still marked the building I live in as a construction site alongside the previous change I’ve made.

Through these interactions, I realize that Open Street Map is indeed a very active community. It is fascinating to think that there are actual people caring about the small changes I made. Therefore, I decided to keep track of the area around my living place and updated the area on Open Street Map as this area is changing very quickly with the construction. I believe that this will be a meaningful project to work on and it gives me an opportunity to explore more on the area I live in.
