---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

> This week’s highlights:
- Open Source in Business
- Group Project’s Progress
> 

## Open Source in Business

On Tuesday’s lecture, we watched a few snippets of talks from the [Open Source in Business](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCwBgcnITw43mboBSplHDRMQ) series. This is a video series that invites experts in the industry to discuss different topics related to Open Source.

The first video we watched was called “**The Transformation of an Industry: Open Source in Film.**” This video invited Carol Payne from Netflix and Larry Gritz from Sony to discuss how had open-source technologies been integrated into the film industry. Technologies and software have actually played a crucial part in modern film creation. Special effects, editing, coloring, and other technologies are indispensable aspects of film creation. It is glad to hear from the talk that a lot of these technologies are actually open-sourced (and more of them are becoming open source). Academy Software Foundation was established in 2018 to sustain the open-source ecosystem in the film industry. I believe that why open source has become so popularized in the film industry was very much due to the nature of this industry. It is an industry of art. What matters the most is ideas and the art itself, technologies are just tools to make these ideas come true. If the filmmakers are being very competitive and hide the new technologies from other filmmakers, then the development of the film industry will be very much slowed by this unnecessary competitive process. 

However, the nature of some other industries determines that most of the software and code should be closed sourced. For example, most technologies in the finance industry remain proprietary. It is because the software itself directly determines the benefit of the company. For example, the model is the most important aspect of quant trading. In these cases, some competition is actually healthy for the industry. 

Open source can still be relevant for such companies who developed proprietary software. In the second video, we watched, “**Lessons Learned from Open Source in Business,**” the guest lecturer introduces a term called inner source - to implement open source practices in proprietary software companies. Instead of a traditional division of work across each department, group, and individual, practicing inner source allows all software developers to collaborate and develop the software together. Such practices ensure more collaborations and more communications. For the nature of software developments, having more people looking over a part of code ensures that more bugs can be discovered and also provides more chances for code reuse, which will ultimately lead to better products and more efficient development. 

## Group Project Progress

We met this Thursday in class and after class as usual. We finally get our first pull request approved as we solved some merging conflicts. On top of that, we followed up on an issue we reported last week. The issue was finally assigned to us, so we took the time to resolve that issue and submitted our pull request. The pull request was approved yesterday, so that is great news. In the future, if we know the solution to an issue, we will make sure that specifies that we know the solution to this issue when submitting an issue. In this way, the issues can be directly assigned to us. 

Since the four of us are not that familiar with the GitHub environment, we initially made all of the changes on the main branch. However, then we realized that if we do so, whenever we submitted a pull request, a lot of unnecessary commits will be included. If we made a branch from the main branch, those unnecessary commits will be included as well. We tried to find ways to resolve this issue by recalling those commits and making our main branch always consistent with the project’s repository. However, we realized that it is impossible to do so. In the end, we have to delete our entire repository and make a new fork (since all of our pull requests have been approved). In the future, we will make sure to never touch the main branch (except for fetch upstream) and create new branches for testing and bug fixes. Although it took us some time to resolve this issue, I think we learned a lot from this mistake.
